# COVID-19 US School Closures 

## Overview

This repo contains the data, `R` scripts and final `PDF` report used in a reproduction of Jack and Oster's "COVID-19, School Closures, and Outcomes" (2023), published in American Economic Association's *Journal of Economic Perspectives*. We successfully replicate and extend three of its major research claims, noting one main discrepancy between our analysis and theirs: we found districts with lower broadband usage to in fact spend less of the school year in virtual schooling, whereas the opposite phenomenon was observed by Jack and Oster (2023). This analysis furthers the original paper's discussion on the learning loss due to school closures during the COVID-19 pandemic in the context of the Netherlands. The paper concludes that the COVID-19 pandemic imposed significant costs of learning loss and widened inequality gaps in the United States and the Netherlands, with impacts likely larger in countries disenfranchised by weaker infrastructure or longer closures. 

A replication using the Social Science Reproduction was also produced: 
- minimal replication available here: https://doi.org/10.48152/ssrp-9vc2-gp37
- full replication available here: https://doi.org/10.48152/ssrp-qvfh-0r62

Link to original paper: [https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ajps.12595](https://www.aeaweb.org/articles?id=10.1257/jep.37.4.51)

## File Structure

The repo is structured as follows:

-  `data` contains the data sources used in analysis including the raw and cleaned data. 
-   `inputs/llm` contains the entire chat history with LLM CHATGPT-3.5 
-   `inputs/sketches` contains brief sketches of potential datasets and tables used in the planning stage of this report. 
-   `paper` contains the files used to generate the paper, including the Quarto document and reference bibliography file, as well as the PDF of the paper. 
-   `scripts` contains the R scripts used to simulate (`00-simulate_data.R`), download (`01-download_data.R`), clean (`02-data_cleaning.R`) and test data (`03-test_data.R`), as well as to replicate the important figures from the original paper (`99-replications.R`)

- Note: The file `nces_district_enrollment_2018_2020.dta` is not included in `input/data` given its size. This data can be downloaded from Jack and Oster's "COVID-19, School Closures, and Outcomes" paper's replication package, found in the folder `Raw` (https://www.aeaweb.org/articles?id=10.1257/jep.37.4.51). In order to reproduce our code, download the data, and then change line 85 in (`02-data_cleaning.R`) to the appropriate file path of the file. 
- Note 2: The file `region_data.csv` is not the original raw file as found in Jack and Oster's replication package. Instead, the file titled `OxCGRT_compact_national_v1` is the original raw file as found in the replication package. Due to the original's size, `region_data.csv` simply omits all columns after, and including, the one titled "C1M_Flag" as the information present is not relevant to the study at hand.
- Note 3: The file `country_region.csv` is not part of the replication package for Jack and Oster's paper. The file was manually created by us for the purposes of this paper as the dataset provided by Jack and Oster, `OxCGRT_compact_national_v1`, featured blanks in place of the regions of each country under the region column.

## LLM Usage  

No auto-complete tools such as co-pilot were used in the course of this project. However, CHATGPT-3.5 was used to aid in the writing of this paper. In particular, it was primarily used to aid with the coding aspect of the paper as opposed to the actual writing. The entire chat history for all three users can be found in `inputs/llm/usage.txt`. Note USER #1 is generated by Julia Kim, USER #2 by Krishiv Jain and USER # 3 by Abbass Sleiman. 
